We previously developed a novel pipeline using mamba architectures that relied on lip-sync forgeries to detect deepfakes. Our method was multi-modal, as it detected inconsistencies across both the visual and audio stream of a video. Separate, yet identical state-space models were used to detect the temporal inconsistencies within each stream, while identical lightweight CNN modules were put in place before the mamba architectures to detect spatial inconcistensies; and the final mismatch between the lips and the corresponding audio was detected by a late stage fusion network, which was a multi layer perceptron. 

The model performed excellently on its training dataset, achieving an accuracy of 98.21% and AUC of 99.45% with a parameter count of just 2.476M. For brevity, we will call this pipeline V1d (the name has been inspired from our previous ablation study).

However, the problem with this pipeline was its subpar performance on the cross-dataset evaluation. For the cross-dataset evaluation, we chose KoDF. KoDF is a large-scale dataset of deepfake clips of Korean people. Since it is a dataset biased on ethnicitiy, this happened to be a good stress test for our V1d pipeline. 
As stated before, the performance was subpar on the KoDF dataset. Our V1d pipeline achieved an accuracy of 75.18% and an AUC of 81.88% on the KoDF dataset. The precision and recall scores were 70.61% and 78.92% respectively. The F1-score was 74.53%.

To improve upon this, we proposed some architectural changes to our V1d pipeline. 
We now used four identical mamba blocks, each preceded by the same MobileNetV3-Small architecture. Among the four are the previous two mamba blocks, as they were before. Next, we used a CNN-Mamba pair to detect the spatial inconcistencies across the global domain of the video. This pair sought spatial inconsistencies beyond the 'lip-sync' mismatches. Lastly, another such CNN-Mamba pair was used to detect the temporal inconcistencies across the entire video. 

All four Mamba outputs were then concatenated to a fusion Mamba that actively detects mismatches, and the result is then forwared to an MLP. We will call this new pipeline 'Hierarchical Mamba Fusion' or HMF for short. 

Our HMF variant performed equally well on its training dataset (AV Lips): 97.49% accuracy and 99.84% on AUC. The parameter count, however, has more than tripled in size to 7.582M. This HMF pipeline did better than our V1d pipeline on KoDF: 80.50% accuracy, 87.96% AUC, 77.21% precision, 81.83% recall and an F1-Score of 79.45%. Our newer pipeline was an upgrade in all metrics except parameter count. 

What remains to be seen are the following:
* What if we remove the fusion Mamba module? Will that affect the cross-dataset performance?
* How will the other SOTA multi modal models perform in this same context (trained on AV Lips and evaluated on KoDF)?

The conclusion we derived from our initial failure is that solely focusing on lip-sync forgeries would lead to poorer generalization despite a very small parameter size. Our next goal are to address the aforementioned questions. 
